# Overview
This is one of three repositories developed for my [master's thesis](https://lup.lub.lu.se/student-papers/search/publication/9204484) in software engineering, where we explored the impact of Java refactoring on execution performance.

See also the [evaluation framework](https://github.com/kaohl/masters-thesis-software-evaluation) and the [refactoring framework](https://github.com/kaohl/alfine-refactoring).

> [!NOTE]
> Regarding citation: Please reference the thesis, which provides context for this work, and links to all repositories.

> [!NOTE]
> Please fork the repository for future work.

# Daivy
A Java build framework supporting source transformations of selected applications and dependencies.

How the framework is intended to be used is best demonstrated by the Java performance evaluation framework linked above, where it is used to build a set of benchmarks and a selection of dependencies from source to study performance impact of refactoring.

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not distribute artifacts compiled or generated by any version of this framework. Artifacts may be incomplete and lack necessary information.

# Build and run benchmark
Build dependencies and benchmark using 'build.py', then
run the jar deployed in 'context'.
```
./build.py --project dacapo:batik:1.0 --context context --clean --verbose
java -jar context/batik-1.0.jar
```

# Notes on updating benchmark resources (JaCoP)
## Overview
There is a script 'resources/build-zip-from-folder-name.sh' that can be
used to create a zipfile from a folder name, while also removing backup
files produced by emacs from the file tree before the zip operation
runs.
```
unzip jacop.zip
unzip jacop-data.zip
<<< modify resources >>>
./build-zip-from-folder-name.sh jacop
./build-zip-from-folder-name.sh jacop-data
rm -rf jacop jacop-data
```
There are several caching mechanisms in play to speed up building of
projects. In order to redeploy updated benchmark resources such as
'resources/jacop.zip' and 'resources/jacop-data.zip', run:
```
rm -rf build/jacop projects/jacop
./extract-resources.py
```
Thereafter, jacop builds should be based on the updated version.

## Step-by-step
Using JaCoP and 'resources/{jacop.zip,jacop-data.zip}' as an example:
1. cd into the resources folder
2. Unzip 'jacop-data.zip'
3. Add new challenges or other workloads to the data file tree.
   See NOTICE.txt inside the data archive for where to find
   additional challenges online.
4. Unzip 'jacop.zip'
5. Add new workloads to 'jacop.cnf' and copy checksums for stdout and
   stderr from one of the existing workloads.
6. Use 'build-zip-from-folder-name.sh' to rebuild both archives
7. Redeploy and run all new workloads and read off the correct
   checksums from the harness output. Run with the --preserve
   flag enabled and validate output in 'scratch/{stderr,stdout}.log'.
8. Update 'jacop.cnf' accordingly and rebuild the archive again
9. When done with all modifications, remove folders created from
   unpacking the archives and commit the updated zip files.

# Troubleshooting
## Classpath issues (relative paths in Class-Path attribute)
When using relative paths in the manifest Class-Path attribute, paths are
interpreted relative the directory in which the executed jar resides.
All resources required by a benchmark is deployed in the build context with
a working manifest classpath to deployed artifacts copied from the ivy cache.
Check the Class-Path attribute in the built benchmark jar and also resources
in dependencies if classes appears to be missing.

Absolute paths can be used in the Class-Path attribute since we are not
distributing built artifacts, but should be avoided. Add additional jars
to the build context deployment with relative paths in Class-Path instead.

